Hey friends. I just want
to thank our sponsor. Next
Mo next Mo is an
API platform that allows developers
to integrate communications features like
voice and SMS into their
projects. Next most comprehensive set
of tools includes powerful API
APIs, libraries, and SDKs that
allow developers to build and
iterate quickly in the language
of their choice, whether it's
C-sharp node, PHP, Java, Python,
and more visit developer dot
dot com that's N
E X M o.com/hansel. To
learn more about next month
that's developer Dutton next mo.com/hansel,
H a N S E
L to learn more. .
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
talking with Julia Evans. She is
a infrastructure engineer at Stripe
and a famous Xen creator.
I love your zenes and
I'm excited every time I
see one go by on
my timeline. Thanks so much
for having me on the
show. Yeah, absolutely. So you
make zenes, they are kind
of hard to define. What,
how would you call what
is a Xen from your
perspective? I think a lot
of the time people confuse
the word, like Xen and
comic, if that makes sense.
So what I need to
do is it's like usually
a handmade 20 page ish
thing that you make, and
you either like giveaway yourself
to people or is like,
it's something which is usually
independently published. It's not like
the production values are not
usually that high, right? Like
when I make scenes, I
like print them on my
home printer and like give
them to full or sell
them to people. Sometimes I
go to my local print
shop and I'll print like
200, but it's like, it's
like an independent undertaking where
you write like a small
booklet about something that you
love or that you think
more people should know that
this makes me, it makes
me feel like I was,
I was in like in
the eighties when I was
in school, I would print
out like, like I couldn't
afford like trading cards for
like, you know, garbage pail
kids or whatever. So we
just make our own like,
and cut them out with
scissors and give them to
our friends. And they're all
black and white. And if
you could find someone's copy
machine where you didn't have
to pay 5 cents a page,
like all the better. Yeah.
I think that's the, that's
the aesthetic. And then so
like I make scenes, which
are collections of comics. And
sometimes people refer to those
comics as deans, but as
Dean, as like a, it
has multiple pages, like a
thing, and some of them
are, have a lot of
text. Like there's like some
of the, some of your
Linux comics you have like
really cool, 24 page scene
of comics, Lennox. And sometimes
there'll be like an, a
whole page with like one
stick figure, but then you'll
do other ones, like you
have a whole Xen on
TCP dump, which is like
totally different art style. And
it's very, very sophisticated. Your
art style seems to with
the topic, Is that true?
I think that, that those
two are the same, like
their covers, the cover of
the TCP Dempsey in is
different, but Oh, okay. So
the cover has a different
style than the inside. Yeah,
because I hired illustrators to
do the covers, but I
did everything inside to myself
and I only know how
to draw stick figures. Oh,
okay. I w I was
always wondering that, cause I,
when I saw they're kind
of your most famous one
and you want to be
a, so you want to
be a wizard, like I'm
like, wow, she can draw
stick figures and this, this
like totally comic front end
front end. So that's cool.
So the cover art is
by another person. Yeah. I
can only draw stick figures
actually. For sure. It's still
a successful Xen art doing
only stick figures, DDM on
the computer or is it
like an iPad pencil or
something? I do them on
an iPad with the Apple
pencil. Yeah. Yeah. I'm looking
at one for example. And
I'm thinking to myself, okay.
Like, let's say, how does
DNS work? Right. It's like
four frames of a comic
and it's got a minimal
amount of text and some
stick figures. If I copied
it as a PowerPoint, I
have a feeling it would
not go viral and no
one would care and it
probably wouldn't teach anyone. But
it's so fun in the
style. Like why does a
Xen work when a PowerPoint
doesn't? So, one thing that
I actually think is really
important about deans is kind
of like the physical nature
of them. Like, like I
write, I definitely like have
them on the internet and
like, I let people read
you can read it on
your screen. Of course. But
the reason I started writing
scenes is that I was
going to a conference. I
was going to pike on
actually. And I was giving
a talk at Python, which
was a big deal. And
I was very excited and
I decided to bring it
a long and hand it
out to everyone in the
audience. Right. So I went
to the fringe drop, like
paid $200, like printed, a
few hundred scenes. And then
I gave them out to
everyone. And like, people have
told me, they were like,
Oh, I still have that
scene. And I still like,
look at it like four
years later. Right. And of
course it's never going to
happen with a PowerPoint. Right.
Or the, or they'll say
like, Oh, I saw your
Z. And like someone gave
it to me or I
saw it in someone's office
and I picked it up
and then I learned something.
And I think that, like
the fact that it's like
an artifact in the world,
but you can like pass
around and give to your
friends. It makes it something
that I think is a
lot easier to learn from.
Interesting. That it does. It's
interesting because you want it
to seem small and personal,
but if it's scales, like
if you became super famous
Jean person, how would you
make them all small and
personal for a million people?
Well, I don't know. This
is a good question, but
I feel like I've read
a lot of books, which
did feel like small and
personal to me, if that
makes sense. Like, cause like
sometimes when you, when you
read a book, it like,
it feels like the person
is just speaking to you.
Right. And you're like, Oh,
this is like, this book
was written for me. How
did you know? And I
think that's kind of the
feeling I want in part
is like, hello, I wrote
this for you. Yeah. That's
really cool. And I think
that's like the amazing thing
about print. Right. And, and
about writing, Do you even
like this, this started out
and you print it out
for 200 people, but do
you do like thousand print
runs now? And like it's
become a big thing. Yeah.
So I spoke at deconstruct
recently, which is this conference
in Seattle and we printed
two thousands genes. Oh wow.
Which was really fun. Yeah.
We've like we printed copies,
like maybe 300 copies of
all of, all of my
scenes. Do you consciously try
to make them like, and
forgive the way I'm phrasing
this? Like not polished, like
for example, if a Xen
is like you photocopied and
then slightly a skew, it
just means it has personality.
Right. But if you did
like an actual print run
for like a New York times
bestselling something and it was
a skew, people would like
lose their minds. Yeah. It
do. Is it intentional? I
mean, it's kind of a
matter of like, I'm not
an extremely good designer or
artist. Right. Like, so I
think that there's kind of
like an upper limit to
like the metaphors. I'm probably
as close as you can
go into produce, especially because
I do it in my
spare time. Right. Like I
do it after work. So
I think it's just not
going to happen. Like maybe
at some point that'll make
things that are more polished,
but I think people really
like it too. Like I
think having something handwritten is,
is, is a huge deal
in like the fact that
like, like, I think a
part of a part of
it is like, people are
like, Oh, you took the
time to write all this
information down by hand. It
must be important. Oh, that's
interesting. You think that people
are like a scribing depth
to something that's not, that's
consciously not deep because it
was handwritten. I think so
like, well, cause I think
if you read something by
hand, it does make it
more important. Right? Cause it
takes me like five times
longer to write something by
hand than at which type
it, How many times do
you have to do these
before? You know that you've
got it right. Because it's
not just like, you didn't
just scribble you. Like there
is structure and thought because
there is a learning style
where you ask a question,
you present a problem and
then you make a helpful,
you, you walk someone through
it, like there's, there's a
linear as Asian to this.
That is important. Yeah. So
what, like one hard thing
is like, so let's say
like you're writing a comic
about some important concept. Like
I don't know, virtual memory.
Right. And like in these,
like, especially in these six
panel comics, I do, I'll
often only write something like
50 words in that. Right.
So you have this huge
topic and you to describe
it in 50 words and
how do you do that?
And so what I do
a lot of the time
is it like, sit on
my couch with this like
paint, look on my face
and I'll be like, what
can I say? Like, what
are five words that I
can say that are true
about this topic? It's really
hard. Right? Cause like making
statements that are like, at
least like 90% true that
are short and that are
understandable is so hard, but
it's possible. Right. And then
once I do it, people
are like, Oh wow, I
understand this now. And so
maybe like sometimes it'll take
me an hour to write
like a 10 word sentence.
Like I usually, usually I
can come up with something
faster than that. But Yeah,
like I'm looking, for example,
like the memory allocation one,
like we've all read like
entire books on memory allocation,
but you're, you're getting it
down to the essence. And
it's clear that you didn't
just like bang that out
in five minutes. Well, it
says at any given time,
your program has a fixed
amount of memory. And then
it shows like a kind
of a, defragmentation kind of
a thing where it shows
pieces of memory, some of
which is used in some
which is free. And then
it says, and you can
ask the OSTP for more
memory. And then you've got
like this happy figure that
represents Google Chrome taking two
gigabytes of your Ram, which
I thought was funny. And
then it has like a
person who's allocating. It's like,
Oh, can I allocate some?
And then you basically show
pieces of memory being Malak.
And then you talk about
different alternatives to Malik with
Facebook and Google having different
Malik's Right. And like this
thing where you can ask
your operating system for more
memory is like, it's like
not a trivial piece of
information. Right. And like, it's
not obvious that like this,
this interaction where you're like,
Hey, offering system, can you,
can I have more memory
is something that your program
is doing, but then you,
like, when you explain it
like that, it seems simple.
And I think it's cool
that you always have the
little people having a conversation
with the computer, which somehow
makes the computer more approachable.
What I think is interesting
is that since you are
a infrastructure engineer and you're
a backend engineer and you're
a low level Linux engineer,
you're talking about like CIS
calls, which for a lot
of people is a scary
thing. Right. And we have
these happy little people making
six calls and I'm like,
Oh, well, is that all
it's just called? It is.
That's not as scary as
I thought it was. Right.
Because there's this thing that
like where you asked for
more memory, you're either using
like the Burke, like BRK
Siskel or you're using the
map Siskel. And it's not
like, I mean, I guess
if you, if you, like,
you could write it in
a way that sounds really
unapproachable, but really like computers
are just communicating all the
time. And so I think
comics are a really good
way to show that because
you're always doing networking. Right?
Like your program is talking
to your operating system, your
programs are talking to each
other. And so I, what
I like to do is
kind of like break down
what the interfaces are, right?
Like, like the system college
or phase, and then just
like show that with a
comic. And you're like, okay,
here's piece one and here's
piece two. And then here's
like the interface where they
talk to each other. And
then here's what they're saying.
Cause that's just what happens
on computers. Right? Like that's
how I think about it
is you just have these
different components interacting. And I
think trying to explain it
with comics makes it seem
a lot just like makes
it a lot more straight
forward. Yeah. I like also
that some of the comics
are kind of unapologetic about
stuff. So for example, you've
got one on the OSI
model for networking. I'm like,
Oh, she's going to explain
like all the layers, right.
Layer seven. And she's like,
Oh, well layer five and
six. No one ever talks
about these. Like you just
like, we're not going to
talk about those two layers
because they suck. Yeah. I
thought that was awesome. They
do layers five and six.
Are, are you willing to
speak with them again? Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. One thing that
I kind of think is
important is I try not
to use metaphors. Cause I
don't understand metaphors like, like
I try to make things
simple, but I don't try
to be like, Oh, this
is like this other thing.
Cause often it's like not,
Hmm. Probably people use metaphors.
I'm like, I don't understand
what you mean. Like, That's
really interesting because like I
think of myself as a
teacher and all I have
is metaphors. So that's very
interesting. So here we are
two people presenting information in
two different ways and sometimes
it's effective and sometimes it's
not. Yeah. Yeah. And I
mean, obviously other people use
metaphors effectively, but I don't
understand how to use them
at all. So I just
try to simplify things and
then like the simplest version
of the truth that I
can come up with. And
then I just say that,
Hmm, this is a tough
question. But have you ever
had a Xen? That was
just a huge fail. Like
you put it out there
and nobody got it and
no one understood. And then
you just like made that
gene disappear and recruited. I
don't think so. Well, I
don't know. I mean, I've,
I've written like seventeens, right?
But you've written hundreds of
hundred comics. I've written a
lot of comics. I mean,
some of, some of the
comics are of course bad.
Well, yeah, let me, let
me back it up. So
not I'm misused, but I
see, I actually did what
you want me to, I
misused zenes are collections of
comics. Have you done an
individual comic that just didn't
land the way you wanted
to do it? I can't
remember a specific one that
I thought, okay. He here's
like, this is more of
a blog post. Maybe there
are all these Linux tracing
systems, which let you basically
trace what your operating system
is doing. So like there's
like F trays and they're,
they're all, they're all a
little bit obscure, I guess
have like, most people don't
know about them. And I
was really upset that I
couldn't like find like a
summary of like what all
the like Tracy's sister she's
of some floor. So I
wrote this really long blog
post kind of summarizing, like
at a high level, like
what all these systems do.
And I thought, I think
that it would be, everyone
would be really excited about
it. And what I forgot
is that like, I don't
think most people really care
about clinics, tracing systems. I
think it's mostly just me.
And like, I mean, people
do like, I mean, my
partner just told me the
other day, he was like,
Oh, I saw someone like
link your blog post on
this mailing list saying that
it was really useful. And
I was like, Oh cool.
Like somebody did care. But
like, I think like I
forgot how Nisha topic it
was in a way fine.
Like I like to write
about things that are niche
topics, because I guess, cause
I think that those things
often end up being really
underserved. And like I was
in a way rather write
about that than write about
something like Jason, cause I'm
like, well, people understand Jason.
Like I don't need to
explain Jason. There's a lot
of material out there. I'd
rather write about political tracing
systems and explain what's going
on with like after race.
It is kind of frustrating
though. Like I've, I've been
blogging for a long time
and I'll feel like I'll
spend a week on a
blog. It's like sample code
and charts and graphs and
tables and like timings and
I get no comments and
no one cares and you
get like 10 likes, but
then you write a blog
post about like character turn
line feed, and get internet
loses their mind. Yeah. I
try To sort of time
box how much time I
spend on it on any
given thing. Like this is
part of why I like
to post like individual pages
on Twitter as I go
to sort of like see
what the reaction is and
just like get a sense
of what people think about
it. And sometimes you will
find mistakes also, which is
great. It's very helpful. But
yeah, like for any individual
comic, I think I try
not to spend more than
a couple of hours on
it. Cool. And you're publishing
these though. Now, like you
started making these and you
would just like put them
out. You'd hand them to
people like a couple of
hundred here. You'd print them
all yourself, but I can
go up now and I
can buy these, like get
the print version. If I
like do the, get the
print version. Do you want
me to print this out
or should I buy it
from kind of buy it
from Amazon? Are you selling
them? You can't buy a
printed version right now. That's
a project that I need
to discover an extra few
dozens of hours. Get to
have it. I haven't figured
out how to do it
yet, but yeah. So is
it right now? If you
buy it, you can print
it out. It does. Does
it feel like it's a,
there's a business here though.
Like I could go and
get like t-shirts of zines
and comics. I don't know.
So I'm like, I feel
like apparel is exciting. People
love apparel, but I'm really
excited about selling like printed
stuff and like educational material,
because I feel like there's
a huge need for it.
And like, I guess I've
been writing for free for
a long time. Right. And
that's been great and I
love doing it, but I've
kind of realized, I think
that there's sort of like
an upper bound, like how
much you can do for
free actually really like, well,
yeah, because like, if you
want to make something really
good, you know, spend time
on it. Yeah. And there's
like only so much time.
I think that it's possible
to spend doing things for
free. If that makes sense.
It's like, I've been thinking
about like, like sometimes I
go to conferences and I
feel like frustrated with the
talks, but what I realized
is like people don't get
paid to give talks. Right?
Yeah. Well, most, well, some
people, I guess, I guess
there's like there are paid
like famous people that get
money, I guess. Yeah. Yeah.
Right. I believe like the
incentives are sort of misaligned,
right? Like, like people aren't
being paid to give educational
talks. Yeah. And like, I
mean, to the extent that
people at tech conferences do
get paid to give talks,
they're getting paid to like
Market. Thanks to you. That's
a good point. That's a
good point because the famous
people all have a book
to sell or whatever. Yeah.
And so I've been thinking
about sort of like, how
can you structure like a
business so that the incentives
are correctly aligned so that
you can actually like focus
on education, which I feel
like isn't really true in
the publishing industry right now.
Because if you publish a
book with like a mainstream
tech publisher, you're not gonna
make that much money. And
so like, it's like your
financial incentives are not actually
set up to really focus
on it. Right. Right. Well,
and they're going to go
and sell red trees and
they'll sell the dead tree
for like $40 to a
teacher who can't afford it
and you'll get a dollar
or two and then their
next year, they're going to
want you to update all
of your stuff with the
latest version and they can
sell more. Yeah. And part,
part of the reason I
think scenes are exciting is
that they're pretty fast to
produce. And because like technology
is always moving, you can
write something like fairly quickly
about something maybe even relatively
recent, which is, I mean,
I don't do this. Right.
I read about things like
Sri are like 10 years
old or about like GCP
that I actually write about
extremely, relatively old stuff. Most
of the time that hasn't
changed and probably isn't going
to change. But, but, but,
but you can write and
I think it's a lot
easier to write something short
and then people will actually
read short things, unlike books,
which I think they mostly
won't read. No, that's a
good point though, because like
I've had, I have memorized
like every single line to
Hamilton and the OT and
the audio book. And I
follow the guy on Twitter
and I've been sitting on
the actual book of Hamilton.
I think the one that
he based the musical on,
it's like 600 pages. It's
been moving around my house,
but it's never actually been
read, which is stressing me
out. I feel like Twitter
has ruined my ability to
read long form stuff, but
I'll read your zenes there,
you know? Cause they're not
600 pages. Yeah. Yeah. And
I think even some of
my favorite tech books, I'll,
I've only read like two
chapters of that. Yeah. Code
complete Steve McConnell's code complete.
Right. And some of those
chapters are really good. Like
they're not bad books, but
I've been thinking about like,
well, like what if we
focus on smaller things and
like really focused on being
like, what if we just
make 20 pages, we'll make
those 20 pages so good
and make them like really
what you need to know.
Yeah. Like, like some of
your, like I could read
an entire chapter on like
how the Linux proc directory
works, but I read your
Xen and I feel like
I pretty much get it.
And there's probably a hundred
words on the entire thing.
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And then
you can always go to
the man page, right? Like
if you want Exactly. Hey
folks, Intel is a sponsor
this week and I welcome
them because they're bringing some
high performance developer tools for
all of us check out
Intel's parallel studio X, E
I've talked about parallelism before
on the show and the
importance of using the complete
instruction set, unlocking the power
of the process or that
your code is running on.
Now, you all might be
writing C or C plus
plus Python or even Fortran,
but is your code building
in such a way and
written in such a way
that it uses the latest
techniques for vectorization multithreading multi-node
parallelization or memory optimization? Intel
parallel studio ECC has a
lot of new stuff for
2018 across all these languages.
Get a free download at
dot com slash parallels
studio Z, or certainly go
and Google or Google with
being for Intel parallel studio
XE and get started boosting
your apps performance with smart
parallel code with a lot
less effort, check them out.
bitly.com/parallels, studio X, E. So
you know, you're, you know,
you're somewhat senior. Would you
call yourself an intermediate developer?
Him? How long have you
been in developing Helen? So
I learned from him 15
years ago. Okay. So do
you feel like there's a
special place for like that
10, 15 year intermediate developer
learning where we want to
learn more a certain way?
Like, I feel like there's
so much material for beginners
right now. Like if you
want to learn a programming
language, there's like these like
learn Python the hard way.
Right. Which I've heard really
good things about. And there's
so little material, I think
for, for intermediate to like
maybe advanced developers. I think
I had this really sort
of formative experience five years
ago where someone told me
that Estrace, which is this
tool that traces system calls
on Lex. And I didn't
know. Well, I didn't know
that system calls existed. Like,
I didn't know how Perkins
talked to the operating system
at all. And I didn't
know that you could trace
them with Estrace. I think
at that point I'd been
programming for 10 years and
I felt kind of like
angry almost like I was
like, why didn't anyone tell
me before? Right. And like,
where was I supposed to
learn this? And I realized
that for a lot of
things, there's sort of no
way, like, I mean, of
course, like someone could have
told me, right? Like it's
possible that I guess I
could have met someone who
told him, but I didn't.
Right. So I was like,
wait, how am I supposed
to learn these straight? Like,
how are we supposed to
learn new things that are
pretty fundamental, right? Like the
fact that like system calls
or how your program talks
to your operating system, it's
like a pretty fundamental fact
about how computers work. And
of course, like you can
say like, Oh, well Julia,
you should have taken the
operating systems class in university
instead of not taking it.
Right. But like university classes
are not, I don't think
are like the solution to
like ongoing developer education. Right?
Like once you graduated from
university, you will have learned
some things. But like, no
matter what university you went
to, you're still going, I'm
not learn some like important
and fundamental things anyway. And
so it's like, well, how
do you, how, how, how
does it happen that you've
learned those things? Right? Well,
like I was talking to
my, to my spouse a
couple of days ago and
it turns out that she
doesn't know how to change
her oil. Now here's a
person who's been driving for
20 years. Right? Yeah. I
could. So she's a senior
driving engineer. Yeah. Who am
I to say? How do
you not know how to
change your oil? Like, but
that seems to be the
way the community approaches, stuff
like that. Like how do
you not know that she
also doesn't know how to
drive a stick shift? I
could like lose my mind
and, and like, I don't
know, stick shift to shame
her for not knowing how
to drive a stick, but
at the same time, shouldn't
I be happy that automatic
shift cars work and they
work great so much so
that she doesn't need to
own to know that. So
then the question is as
an intermediate developer, what am
I supposed to know? And
what's a waste, like, do
I need to know how
to change my own oil?
Or do I just hire
someone to do that? Yeah.
Right. So it's like, how
do you figure out what,
what you do need to
know? And like, once you
decide, you want to know
those things, like what are
the resources you're going to
use to learn? Yeah. Yeah.
There's no, like you wouldn't
go and find Python for
intermediate people. There's not like
that book doesn't exist. Yeah.
And I think Like I
was reading the C plus
plus programming book a little
bit. Cause I wanted to
learn a little bit of
C plus plus. And it
was like, Oh, here's what
a variable is. And I
was like, Oh, what, like,
what is this book? Like,
I'm not reading this. Right.
Like I'm not reading someone
like explain to me what
a function is for 10
pages. Like I want to
learn like what I need
to know about people's pluses,
someone who knows like these
like eight other programming languages
already, but I don't know
C plus plus, right? Like
they're their list is like
tricky things about C plus
plus that are really surprising
someone coming from another language.
But yeah, I dunno. I
was like, this is really
hard. It is. It almost
feels weird. Like I learned
that I was mispronouncing a
word for the last 40
years of my life, like
yesterday now that my wife
is not, you know, she's
like, how did you make
it this far? So if
that's happening to me as
a native English speaker, like
imagine how much computer science
or software engineering that I've
gotten wrong. That I'm like
walking around thinking I know
X, and it's actually why
it's going to blow my
mind. And there's not only
like, where do I go
to learn it? And where
do I learn to fix
that? But also like as
a community, we should be
able to be public and
be comfortable to say, Oh,
I never learned how to
do that. Right. But if
you told someone, you didn't
know how to do a
bubble sort, you probably lose
your job. Yeah. That's interesting.
You know, I feel we
should be more kind of
supportive of people in their
learning. And I always appreciate
you on, on Twitter because
I know you are know
what you're talking about. It's
clear in your writing, you
have a great blog and
a mediums and all of
your jeans are fantastic. But
at the same time, I
feel like you're very enthusiastic
about learning stuff. And I
wonder if people are ever
like, Oh, you should have
known that Juliet. How did
you get this far? I
hate it when people do
that kind of stuff, because
I'm always learning new hotkeys
and new SIS calls. Yeah,
I guess so I think,
I think I've spent a
lot of time getting better
at learning. I think it's
really exciting to come up
with like questions of things
that I don't know. It's
like, to me, it's exciting
to learn new things, right?
Like it's not exciting to
say that like, Oh, I
know everything already. Cause like
that's not true. And also
it's pretty boring. Like if
I knew everything in programming,
I would probably quit. Like,
I don't know. It sounds
awful. I would much rather
be learning new things. And
so like, I think the
idea that it's like even
desirable to know everything is
something that I don't believe.
And like, I mean sometimes
like maybe someone, a hacker
news, it would be like,
Oh, like, I can't believe
he didn't know like such
and such. That's your hacker
news accent, But it's just
kind of silly, right? Like,
I mean, and like a
lot of people don't know
a lot of things and
like, it's like an exciting
opportunity to learn that thing.
Right. You're like, Oh great.
Today is today that today's
the day that I guess
lose that thing. And that's
fine. Exactly. And that's, that's
the way we all should
be. You know, we should
be positive that stuff. And
because not everyone has, like,
we may all have 10
or 15 years of experience,
but not everyone has the
same years. Yeah. We're doing
different stuff. What were you
doing before? You were an
infrastructure engineer. Okay. Machine learning.
Okay. I switched from machine
learning to doing infrastructure engineering
two years ago. Oh wow.
But like in like machine
learning is like the new
hotness that everyone's talking about.
So you're doing it before
it was the hotness. Well,
I don't know. I think
it was good because it
was also the hotness two
years ago. I don't know.
I don't have a sense
in my mind. Like when
machine learning started being amazing,
Cool for a minute, My
bed, my bed. So you
also do a lot of
open source and you actually
took a sabbatical from work
to write a profiler. How
did you do that? Actually,
I sort of don't do
a lot of opensource. I
took a sabbatical from work
to do opensource for three
months, but the reason I
did that was that I
don't do open source. Am
I spare time at all?
Really? Yeah. Well I do
a lot of other like
writing in my spare time.
So if I also programmed
in my spare time, in
addition, it would, I think
it would not be healthy.
I think it would be
too much, but yeah. So
I have this profiler I
want to write and I
was like, well, I wanna
do this programming project. And
it, realistically speaking, I'm not
going to do it in
my spare time. So I
applied for a fellowship and
they gave me the fellowship
and then I took three
months off work and wrote
this real violet. Wow. Was
that stressful? No, it was
great. That's a good sign.
Amazing. I must be. That's
something that only Canadians could
do because I don't know
if I could get healthcare
if I took three months
off work. Oh yeah. That's
true. I don't know about
that. I think so someone
asks you, they're like, Oh,
do you get health care
here? Your tobacco? And I
was like, I have no
idea. I didn't think about
that at all. Yeah. That's
what I got another whole
podcast right there. If it's
like, Oh my goodness. A
three months sabbatical to work
on something I want to
work on. That would be
amazing. Yeah. Yeah. I just
asked my manager for permission.
I'm like six months. Oh
really? Okay. So you like
paused your job and came
back to the same job.
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. That's amazing.
That's amazing. So you made
a RB spy and people
can go and Google for
our Spire go to Arby's
by dot get hub.io. Have
other people gotten involved with
this profiler? Cause it it's
got lots of, lots of
forks and stars, but are
people using to and digging
it? People that are using
it. Yeah. They've told one
person left this really delightful
comment, but maybe happy where
they said that they'd had
this like really bad performance
problem and the Ruby program.
And then they used our
baseline and then the, then
it was wrong right away.
And they fixed it and
their boss thought that they
were a genius, Which is
exactly like become a wizard
programmer. Like they've done an
exactly what you told them
they could do. Yeah. Which
is what you want. Right.
I feel like it's like,
it's exciting to build tools
to tell people like, it'd
be better and like make
them feel like, I don't
know, like I don't want
people to feel like they
can do anything. Right. And
was it a, was it
a problem that had existed
before? Like was there, is
there just no good profiling
for Ruby right now Are
there is a good profiler,
but it doesn't work the
same way that Arby's fireworks.
So the way RVs fireworks
is you can just attach
it to any running Ruby
program, no matter what. And
the other profilers that already
existed, you need to just
kind of like edit your
program source code. And so
being able to just like
poke it something that's already
running and be like, Hey,
what are you doing? What
are some is something that
wasn't possible before. Cool. And
I understand that it's a
sampling profiler, so you can
actually run it like in
production without fear. Yeah, that's
right. That's pretty sweet. And
are you continuing work on
it or do you, have
you developed a community and
a team around it or
is it just you? It's
mostly, it's mostly just me.
I'm still working on it
a little bit. And I
understand that you were trying
to do some flame graphs
as well. Like it, it
produces like information that you
can then use to go
and visualize. Yeah. Yeah. So
it produces visualizations by default,
which was an early important
design decision I made actually,
because I think like a
lot of profilers will require
you to do like extra
work, to get a visualization.
And I thought, well, that
doesn't really work for people
because I think people who
are profiling usually like if
they're doing profiling, they probably
haven't done it for like
two years. Right. Like they've
just decided, okay, today is
the day that I'm going
to do profiling. And I
don't know how to do
this. What's going on. So
you really like want to
give them, like, you want
to make the experience as
easy for them as possible
because profiling is something that
people do do something frequently.
Right. So I thought it
was really important to create
the visualization by default. And
people have said, they're like,
Oh wow. I didn't know
that you could make this
kind of visualization. And so
I think they wouldn't have
thought to go do it
themselves. Cause they didn't know
that it existed. Right. Yeah.
Like, and if you have
to go and do a
bunch of setup, just because
you want to ask like,
answer and ask a question,
then we won't bother doing
it. So the flame graph
comes out of the box.
Yeah. That's cool. Awesome. And
that you did that in
just a, in three months.
Had you been working out
before or did you do
it all like beginning to
end in three months I
built a prototype before, so
I kind of had an
idea that it was possible,
which is what kind of
gave you the confidence to
actually take three months off
work, to work on it.
Right. And did the, when
you did the grant, like,
do you have to then
go to the grant people
and say, look, I did
a thing. Yeah. I mean,
I said like, I think
I I've been blogging about
it. So they obviously knew
that I had been working
on it. And so I
think like at the end
I just sent them an
email and I was like,
Hey, I did the thing.
Can you send me the
money? It was, it was
pretty simple. They were there.
They were really great to
work with. That's that's really
cool. I didn't even realize
that one could like ask
for a grant and get
it and do something like
that. And that's inspirational to
know that you can do
that. Yeah. Yeah. The program
was called the segment opensource
fellowship. There's this analytics company
called segment that ran it
So people can check out
your zenes. Should they just
go to JV and s.ca
or is there a better
homepage for your jeans? Yeah,
they can go there. Cool.
So you can just Google
for Julia Evans, jeans, your everywhere
and follow you on Twitter.
And you're kind of working
on comics all the time
and I follow you on
Twitter and see those things
go by and RB spy
of course is RB spider
github.io. Thanks so much for
chatting with me today. Thanks
so much for having me.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again.